Add a prometheus label mapping component (#2025)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/prometheus/prometheus.mapping.md

key-value pairs called labels. Each sample represents a datapoint in the
time series and contains a value and an optional timestamp.

```text
<metric name>{<label_1>=<label_val_1>, <label_2>=<label_val_2> ...} <value> [timestamp]
```

The `prometheus.mapping` component create new labels on each metric passed
along to the exported receiver by applying a mapping table to a label value.

The most common use of `prometheus.mapping` is to create new labels with a high
cardinality source label value (>1k) when a large set of regex is inefficient.

You can specify multiple `prometheus.mapping` components by givin them
different labels.

## Usage

```alloy
prometheus.mapping "LABEL" {
  forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST

  source_label = "labelA"

  mapping = {
    "from" = {"labelB" = "to"},
    ...
  }
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name           | Type                      | Description                                                         | Default | Required
---------------|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------

> `forward_to`   | `list(MetricsReceiver)`   | The receiver the metrics are forwarded to, afterthey are relabeled. |         | yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`forward_to`   | `list(MetricsReceiver)`   | The receiver the metrics are forwarded to after they are relabeled. |         | yes
```

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus/prometheus.mapping/
description: Learn about prometheus.mapping
title: prometheus.mapping
---

> # prometheus.mapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Public preview</span>

# prometheus.mapping

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/public_preview.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}
```

Adding in the Public Preview elements for the docs

key-value pairs called labels. Each sample represents a datapoint in the
time series and contains a value and an optional timestamp.

```text
<metric name>{<label_1>=<label_val_1>, <label_2>=<label_val_2> ...} <value> [timestamp]
```

The `prometheus.mapping` component create new labels on each metric passed
along to the exported receiver by applying a mapping table to a label value.

The most common use of `prometheus.mapping` is to create new labels with a high
cardinality source label value (>1k) when a large set of regex is inefficient.

You can specify multiple `prometheus.mapping` components by givin them
different labels.

## Usage

```alloy
prometheus.mapping "LABEL" {
  forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST

  source_label = "labelA"

  mapping = {
    "from" = {"labelB" = "to"},
    ...
  }
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name           | Type                      | Description                                                             | Default | Required
---------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------

> `forward_to`   | `list(MetricsReceiver)`   | Where the metrics should be forwarded to, after relabeling takes place. |         | yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`forward_to`   | `list(MetricsReceiver)`   | The receiver the metrics are forwarded to after they are relabeled. |         | yes
```

`source_label` | `string`                  | Name of the source label to use for mapping.                            |         | yes
`mapping`      | `map(string,map(string))` | Mapping from source label value to target labels name/value.            |         | yes

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name       | Type              | Description
-----------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------
`receiver` | `MetricsReceiver` | The input receiver where samples are sent to be relabeled.

## Component health

> `prometheus.mapping` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
> configuration. In those cases, exported fields are kept at their last healthy
> values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prometheus.mapping` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration.
In those cases, exported fields are kept at their last healthy values.
```

## Debug information

`prometheus.mapping` doesn't expose any component-specific debug information.

## Debug metrics

* `prometheus_mapping_metrics_processed` (counter): Total number of metrics processed.
* `prometheus_mapping_metrics_written` (counter): Total number of metrics written.

## Example

> You can create and an instance of a see `prometheus.mapping` component and see how
> it acts on the following metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an instance of a `prometheus.mapping` component.
```

```alloy
prometheus.mapping "keep_backend_only" {
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.onprem.receiver]

  source_label = "app"

  mapping = {
    "frontend" = {"team" = "teamA"}
    "backend"  = {"team" = "teamB"}
    "database" = {"team" = "teamC"}
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use the following metrics.

```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```text
````

metric_a{__address__ = "localhost", instance = "development", app = "frontend"} 10
metric_a{__address__ = "localhost", instance = "development", app = "backend"}  2
metric_a{__address__ = "cluster_a", instance = "production",  app = "frontend"} 7
metric_a{__address__ = "cluster_a", instance = "production",  app = "backend"}  9
metric_a{__address__ = "cluster_b", instance = "production",  app = "database"} 4
```

> After applying the mapping a new `team` label is created based on mapping table
> and `app` label value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying the mapping, a new `team` label is created based on mapping table and `app` label value.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```text
````

metric_a{team = "teamA", __address__ = "localhost", instance = "development", app = "frontend"} 10
metric_a{team = "teamB", __address__ = "localhost", instance = "development", app = "backend"}  2
metric_a{team = "teamA",  __address__ = "cluster_a", instance = "production",  app = "frontend"} 7
metric_a{team = "teamA",  __address__ = "cluster_a", instance = "production",  app = "backend"}  9
metric_a{team = "teamC",  __address__ = "cluster_a", instance = "production",  app = "database"} 4
```

> The resulting metrics are then propagated to each receiver defined in the
> `forward_to` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting metrics are propagated to each receiver defined in the `forward_to` argument.
```

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus/prometheus.mapping/

> aliases:
>   - ../prometheus.mapping/ # /docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus.mapping/
> description: Learn about prometheus.mapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about prometheus.mapping
```

title: prometheus.mapping
---

# prometheus.mapping

Prometheus metrics follow the [OpenMetrics](https://openmetrics.io/) format.
Each time series is uniquely identified by its metric name, plus optional
key-value pairs called labels. Each sample represents a datapoint in the
time series and contains a value and an optional timestamp.

> ```

Author: It come from `prometheus.relabel` documentation.Shoud I amend it as well ?

> ```

Reviewer: Lets fix it here and I'll spin up a PR to align the relabel doc.

> ```

Author: Before this paragraph, we say
> Prometheus metrics follow the [OpenMetrics](https://openmetrics.io/) text format.

Isn't it precise enough ?

> ```

Reviewer: Oh we've had a miscommunication.  The codefence (the 3 backticks) should have the syntax highlighting language added.  So, for example, if it's just plaintext...

````
```text
<metric name>{<label_1>=<label_val_1>, <label_2>=<label_val_2> ...} <value> [timestamp]
```
````

> ```

Author: Make sense !

Fixed

<metric name>{<label_1>=<label_val_1>, <label_2>=<label_val_2> ...} <value> [timestamp]
```

The `prometheus.mapping` component create a new label on each metric passed
along to the exported receiver by applying a mapping table to a label value.

> The most common use of `prometheus.mapping` is to create a new label based filter Prometheus metrics or
> standardize the label set that is passed to one or more downstream
> receivers. The `rule` blocks are applied to the label set of each metric in
> order of their appearance in the configuration file. The configured rules can
> be retrieved by calling the function in the `rules` export field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common use of `prometheus.mapping` is to create a new label-based filter for Prometheus metrics or standardize the label set passed to one or more downstream receivers.
The `rule` blocks are applied to the label set of each metric in order of their appearance in the configuration file. You can retrieve the configured rules by calling the function in the `rules` export field.
```

> Multiple `prometheus.mapping` components can be specified by giving them
> different labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify multiple `prometheus.mapping` components by giving them different labels.
```

## Usage

```alloy
prometheus.mapping "LABEL" {
  forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST

  source_label = "labelA"
  target_label = "labelB"

  mapping = {
    "from" = "to",
    ...
  }
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`forward_to` | `list(MetricsReceiver)` | Where the metrics should be forwarded to, after relabeling takes place. | | yes
`source_label` | `string` | Name of the source label to use for mapping. | | yes
`target_label` | `string` | Name of the target label to use for mapping. | | yes
`mapping` | `map(string,string)` | Mapping from source label value to target labek value. | | yes

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`receiver` | `MetricsReceiver` | The input receiver where samples are sent to be relabeled.

## Component health

`prometheus.mapping` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration. In those cases, exported fields are kept at their last healthy
values.

## Debug information

> `prometheus.mapping` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prometheus.mapping` doesn't expose any component-specific debug information.
```

## Debug metrics

* `prometheus_mapping_metrics_processed` (counter): Total number of metrics processed.
* `prometheus_mapping_metrics_written` (counter): Total number of metrics written.

## Example

> Let's create an instance of a see `prometheus.mapping` component and see how
> it acts on the following metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create an instance of a `prometheus.mapping` component and see how it acts on the following metrics.
```

```alloy
prometheus.mapping "keep_backend_only" {
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.onprem.receiver]

  source_label = "app"
  target_label = "team"

  mapping = {
    "frontend" = "teamA"
    "backend"  = "teamB"
    "database" = "teamC"
  }
}
```

```
metric_a{__address__ = "localhost", instance = "development", app = "frontend"} 10
metric_a{__address__ = "localhost", instance = "development", app = "backend"}  2
metric_a{__address__ = "cluster_a", instance = "production",  app = "frontend"} 7
metric_a{__address__ = "cluster_a", instance = "production",  app = "backend"}  9
metric_a{__address__ = "cluster_b", instance = "production",  app = "database"} 4
```

> After applying the mapping a new label `team` is created based on mapping table
> and `app` label value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying the mapping, a new `team` label is created based on the mapping table and the `app` label value.
```
